>An association rule is a rule-based method for finding relationships between variables in a given dataset. These methods are frequently used for market basket analysis, allowing companies to better understand relationships between different products. Understanding consumption habits of customers enables businesses to develop better cross-selling strategies and recommendation engines. Examples of this can be seen in Amazon’s “Customers Who Bought This Item Also Bought” or Spotify’s "Discover Weekly" playlist. While there are a few different algorithms used to generate association rules, such as Apriori, Eclat, and FP-Growth, the Apriori algorithm is most widely used.

#### _Apriori algorithms_

>Apriori algorithms have been popularized through market basket analyses, leading to different recommendation engines for music platforms and online retailers. They are used within transactional datasets to identify frequent itemsets, or collections of items, to identify the likelihood of consuming a product given the consumption of another product. For example, if I play Black Sabbath’s radio on Spotify, starting with their song “Orchid”, one of the other songs on this channel will likely be a Led Zeppelin song, such as “Over the Hills and Far Away.” This is based on my prior listening habits as well as the ones of others. Apriori algorithms use a hash tree to count itemsets, navigating through the dataset in a breadth-first manner.

[[ML model]] [[Unsupervised]] [[Association Rules]]